Q: What safety features does LiBCM use to prevent electrocution?
A: The entire HVDC bus is galvanically isolated from the control circuitry. There is ZERO risk that high voltage from the HVDC bus finds its way into the digital control circuitry.
There's no danger with any low voltage signals coming from LiBCM. They're all completely galvanically isolated. The entire LiBCM PCB can burn to a crisp and there's zero chance the HVDC will bridge to the low voltage control signals.
A: -Neither HVDC line connects to chassis ground. Therefore:
--if one line touches the chassis, there's zero electrocution risk, unless you then touch both chassis ground AND the other HVDC cable (which is exceedingly unlikely to occur, because that would mean you got in a crash, and then for some reason stuck your hand into the IMA bay).
--If both lines touch chassis ground, then that will blow out the main fuse. Zero electrocution risk, even if you're touching chassis ground.
--The MCM constantly monitors for HVDC faults to chassis ground. If a ground fault is detected, the MCM will open the HVDC contactor.

Q: Why is the grid charger so slow?
A: Cost.  LiBCM is designed to fully charge a completely discharged EHW5 pack overnight.
A: LiBCM supports higher current grid chargers, as long as the following conditions are met:
	-If the grid charger sources more than 3 amps from the wall outlet, then you need to replace both tube fuses on LiBCM with a higher-current-rated variant.
	-The grid charger must source and sink less than 8 amps (with larger fuses installed).
	-The grid charger must be connected to LiBCM identically to the included grid charger.
A: Replacement grid chargers must meet the following criteria:
	-constant current supply
	-must output voltage between at least 139:207 volts (with 48S lithium cells)
	-output current must be controllable via a PWM pulse train.
A: Example replacement grid charges:
	-<ADD LARGER CHARGER>
	-HLG-480H-C2100B (charges 5 Ah pack empty-to-full in under two hours)
	-HLG-320H-C1400B (charges 5 Ah pack empty-to-full in under three hours)
	-PLED200W-190-C1050-D (charges 5 Ah pack empty-to-full in under four hours)
	-GEN200-16.5 (charger 5 Ah pack empty-to-full is under fifteen minutes)

Q: How do I use the grid charger?
A: Turn the car off, then plug the power cable into any standard wall outlet.
A: LiBCM's LCD display will display the state-of-charge, cell voltage, and temperature whenever the grid charger is plugged in.
A: Leave the charger plugged as long as you want. LiBCM handles all the logic, just like your laptop or cell phone. 
A: Unplug the grid charger whenever you want.
A: LiBCM's onboard fans automatically activate as needed to heat or cool the IMA battery.
A: LiBCM won't drain your 12 volt battery.

Q: How often do I need to grid charge?
A: If the car is used regularly, then never.
A: See 'Q___' for recommendations for long-term storage.
A: Linsight recommends grid charging when possible to improve fuel economy.

Q: How does LiBCM calculate battery state-of-charge?
A: When the car is on, LiBCM integrates the measured pack current.
A: When the car is off, LiBCM estimates SoC based on the resting cell voltage.  This removes any error accumulated during integration.  FYI: SoC uncertainty is less than 1% per hour the car is on (e.g. after driving the car continuously for 5 hours, the SoC could be off by 5%.  Each keyOff event resets the uncertainty to 0%.
A: You can manually set SoC to any value (via USB interface).  However, LiBCM will automatically adjust SoC based on its own internal knowledge of the battery. For example, if you set the battery size to 1000 mAh, but the battery is actually 5000 mAh, then LiBCM will automatically adjust the correct value. In that sense, any value you manually enter is just a guideline for LiBCM to start from.

Q: How much heat does the lithium pack generate internally (due to ESR)?
A; Around ten times less than the OEM NiMH pack.  EHW5 lithium cells have an initial cell ESR around 1.1 mOhm.
A: Worst case calculation (full assist with current hack installed): Discharging at full power will generate 24 watts of heat per cell; a 48S pack will therefore internally generate 1200 of heat under full load.  However, the IMA system will not deliver peak power for more than a few seconds, after which the power is greatly reduced.
A: LiBCM can continuously deliver 12 kW until the pack is empty.  At this power level, each cell generates 8 watts of heat (worst case); a 48S pack will therefore generate 400 watts of heat worst case.  Each EHW5 is therefore generating about the same heat as a 100 watt incandescent light bulb.
A: In practice, the self-heat generated inside the battery during assist/regen is inconsequential.  The overwhelming contributor to pack heat is the cabin air temperature.
FYI: LiBCM directly monitors the temperature on each EHW5 module's outer steel enclosure.  LiBCM also monitors the cabin air temperature, the exhaust air temperature, the IMA bay temperature, and several other temperatures to verify the pack operates within acceptable temperatures.  LiBCM will disable assist/regen if needed to prevent self-heating.

Q: What other lithium chemistries are supported?
A: With firmware modifications, LiBCM supports all known lithium chemistries.  Specifically, LiBCM supports any cell that charges with a CC/CV profile.
A: Without firmware modifications, LiBCM supports any lithium chemistry that can safely operate between 3.0 and 4.2 volts.
A: Without firmware modifications, LiBCM supports batteries from 1 Ah to 65.5 Ah.
A: While LiBCM supports most lithium batteries, Linsight only officially supports EHW5 lithium modules.

Q: Does LiBCM work in any other vehicles besides the G1 Honda Insight (2000-2006)?
A: No.
A: LiBCM is a passion project.
A: With minimal effort (mostly mechanical fitment), LiBCM will probably work in the G1 Honda Civic Hybrid.
A: With dedicated engineering effort, LiBCM could probably work with most NiMH-based hybrid vehicles.
A: I'm not interested in adapting LiBCM to your vehicle.

Q: What certifications does LiBCM have?
A: None
A: LiBCM is exempt from FCC emissions testing requirements, per 15.103(A), which exempts "digital devices utilized exclusively in any transportation vehicle".
A: LiBCM is exempt from emissions _________

Q: Why can't I upload firmware onto the Arduino Mega PCB when it's disconnected from the LiBCM PCB?
A: Why did you do that?  Put it back together!
A: The Arduino PCB connected to LiBCM has a custom bootloader that prevents host-initiated hardware resets unless both PCBs are mated together.
FYI: The custom bootloader allows LiBCM to boot in just 16.1 ms (the stock bootloader takes 920 ms).  Faster booting prevents P1648-related errors (when LiBCM was initially off and the key turns on).

Q: Why does LiBCM have an Arduino Mega PCB on it?
A: LiBCM's production volume is so low that generic Arduino Megas are actually cheaper than just the cost of the MEGA2560 processor.  The Mega also includes two MCUs, a USB port, an oscillator, a voltage reference.
A: It's in stock. I've had zero issues buying them, which is more than I can say for pretty much any other part right now. 
A: V&V is easier when I can remove the MCU as needed to troubleshoot signals... pulling off the entire MCU allows me to inject signals anywhere I want, without having to worry about how the MCU will behave.
A: Mechanical issues would have required a separate PCB for the USB connector anyway.
A: USB firmware updates are easy thanks to Arduino team's dedicated bootloader legwork. This is good for customers.
A: People unfamiliar with embedded development environments can modify the firmware without having to install a complete embedded toolchain (e.g. IAR/Atmel Studio/etc). Arduino is hands down the easiest embedded toolchain out there.
A: LiBCM is nearly feature complete and yet is only using 10% of CPU time, 7% of storage, and 22% of RAM... with an 8b MCU.

Q: When should I plug in the grid charger?
A: Whenever you want, as long as the key is off.
A: When the IMA SoC is below 30%, LiBCM will turn itself off ten minutes after the keyOff event.  Therefore, if SoC is below 30%, then the grid charger will not charge unless it's plugged in within ten minutes of turning the key off. 
A: To prevent driving off while the grid charger is plugged in, LiBCM does not allow grid charging when the key is on.  If the grid charger is connected and the ke is on, LiBCM will:
	-emit a continuous audible beep
	-display a warning message on the LCD
	-set a Pcode and disable IMA-starting.

Q: What's special about cell 24?
A: Cell 24's Vsense circuit is unique in that it is mechanically in the middle of an 18S lithium module, but electrically C24+ (also C25-) is shared between two different LTC6804 ICs (each IC measures QTY12 cells).

Q: What benefits does LiBCM offer?
A: if/when a specific cell does eventually fail, LiBCM will tell you exactly which cell has failed. You can then replace that single cell (or even just short it out). Note that you'll even be able to mix-and-match cells... LiBCM will obviously be limited by the weakest cell, but given the BMS circuitry, LiBCM will be able to 'correct' for weakness on a per-cell basis.
A: increased battery lifetime, cell-level troubleshooting, and lower ESR.

Q: What happens ten years down the road when these EHW5 modules die?
A: Fortunately, these lithium cells seem destined to become a de-facto standard... and if not, then a decade from now we can always have more made specifically for our purpose.  Or maybe another existing lithium pack design will come along that's equally compatible.

Q: Do an EHW5 lithium battery store more energy than the stock NiMH pack?
A: A 48S LiBCM-equipped IMA battery with EHW5 lithium cells stores 30% more deliverable energy than an OEM NiMH pack*.
*An OEM NiMH pack nominally stores 936 Wh, whereas the EHW5 lithium pack only stores 887 Wh.  However, the lithium pack has a wider safe operating SoC range, and can therefore deliver more energy (666 Wh) than the OEM pack (515 Wh).  

Q: What are the two DIP switches on the LiBCM PCB used for?
A: "Disable Reset" = ON: plugging in the USB cable does not restart LiBCM, but USB firmware updates are not allowed
A: "Disable Reset" = OFF: plugging in the USB cable restarts LiBCM, and USB firmware updates are allowed (default)
A: "User Switch" is firmware-programmable behavior.  Not presently implemented for any specific task.

Q: Why Arduino?
A: Easiest programming environment for a new user to get started in.  I'm definitely thinking about the end-user when it comes to customization.
A: LiBCM is mostly written in pure C.  A few HAL-specific tasks use the (slower) Arduino language.
A: The Arduino IDE is mostly used for the built-in GCC compiler, plus point-and-click interface.

Q: 54S: Considering the abundance of 18S modules, and that a 54S setup would fit just as well in the stock enclosure as a 48S, what additional difficulty would be involved in setting up LiBCM as a 54S configuration?
A: While QTY3 18S modules mechanically fit inside the OEM enclosure, placing an 18S module in bay 1 (closest to the junction board) prevents the high current cables from cleanly routing to the junction board.  You would need to figure out how to externally route the current cables to the junction board.
A: There are many firmware changes required to use a 54S pack (MCM'E' voltage, ,,,etc).

Q: How do I update the firmware?
A: (Beta) Watch this video:
A: Make sure the car is off (or you'll get a CEL).
A: The IMA switch can either be off or on (doesn't matter).

Q: I found a problem with the firmware/hardware/LiBCM.  How do I submit a bug request?
A: https://github.com/doppelhub/Honda_Insight_LiBCM/issues
OR
A: <Link to LiBCM Issues/Bugs/Requests Page>

Q: What voltages does LiBCM 'spoof' to increase power?
A: BATTSCI (digital)
A: MCM'E' (high voltage, modified with galvanically isolated PWM train)
A: VPIN (LiBCM man-in-the-middles this analog signal).  This is the orange wire that is modified on the IMA wire harness.
A: Full explanation: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5rsAQy2ybBA

Q: What additional parts do I need to install the current hack?
A: A 150 amp, 175 amp, or 200 amp L50S Littelfuse
A: @Bull Dog's MCM Current Hack PCB (link:_________)
A: Install video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FATCvhCUAjk

Q: Do I need to install a larger fuse to use LiBCM?
A: Only if you also add the +40% Current Hack PCB (inside the MCM)

Q: Should I install the current hack PCB?
A: Yes
A: Your friends will stop telling you your car is slow.
A: There aren't any downsides.
A: If you decide it's not for you, disabling the hack is as simple as toggling four DIP switches and uploading new firmware to LiBCM.

Q: Does LiBCM safely manage cell voltage under all conditions?
A:

Q: Will LiBCM improve my mileage?
A: If your old pack is toast, then yes.
A: Otherwise, it entirely depends on driving habits.
A: My mpg hasn't changed, but I drive the car much faster/harder now.
A: (Beta) the default voltage spoofing algorithm isn't yet optimized for fuel efficiency.
A: LiBCM supports several different charge profiles.  For example, if you always drive short distances and grid charge when parked, you can tell LiBCM to limit/disable regen.  See config.h for more info.

Q: Why do I sometimes get IMA error code P1648 while driving?
A: P1648 means LiBCM isn't sending data to the MCM.
A: If the P1648 error occurs infrequently, then it's probably an RF noise issue.  A beta tester noted that moving the LCD cable further away from the main wire harness near the parking brake reduced the error rate.  The production LCD cables are shielded, and there's more signal conditioning on the conductors.  Production LiBCM units probably won't see this P1648 errors caused by RF interference.
A: If the P1648 error occurs immediately and persists across several drive cycles, then LiBCM isn't powered, or the firmware isn't running.  Troubleshooting steps:
	-Verify the IMA switch is on.
	-Turn the IMA switch off and then on.
	-Verify at least one green LED near the USB connector is on; if not, then check the user-replaceble fuses.
	-Update the firmware

Q: Why do I sometimes get P1576(12) while driving?
A: This is a voltage mismatch between two voltages LiBCM sends to the MCM (MCM'E' & VPIN).  To fix ______________________
it's probably P1576(12), which suggests that your car's MCM is sampling VPIN differently than my car... or maybe we're just both on an edge case and your car is more likely to throw this issue. On your end, I recommend measuring VPIN_in and VPIN_out with a DMM while in autostop. Multiply your DMM measurements by 52 and that should be within 10 volts of the actual and spoofed pack voltage (as reported by LiBCM). Example measurements (that I just made up):

-VPIN_in (to PDU) measures 3.475 volts
-pack actual voltage (as measured by LiBCM) is 180.6 volts
3.475 * 52 = 180.7 volts, which is within 10.0 volts of 180.6 volts, so all is good.

-VPIN_out (to MCM) measures 3.123 volts
-pack spoofed voltage (LiBCM sends this value to MCM via BATTSCI) is 160 volts
3.123 volts * 52 = 162.4 volts, which is within 10.0 volts of 180.6 volts, so all is good.
P1576(12) occurs when the MCM'E' voltage disagrees with the VPIN voltage by more than 10 volts for more than two seconds.

About once per second, the MCM's "Insulation Resistance Check" (IRC) routine injects a test current - sourced from chassis ground - alternatively into the MCM'E' connector's HVDC+ & HVDC- leads.

In the OEM configuration, the MCM'E' connector has a low resistance path back to the battery (less than a couple ohms). However, on LiBCM the return path is substantially higher (around 20 kOhm, see R69/R70/R71/R72/R335/R336). This high resistance is required to spoof the MCM'E' pack voltage. Therefore, when LiBCM is installed, the MCM'E' voltage droops whenever the IRC test is active (about once per second).

When the IRC test finishes, the current injection is disabled, which causes the MCM'E' voltage to slowly rise back to the actual pack voltage. Specifically, the voltage rises with a 1st order LPF, where R = 20 kOhm & C = 118 nF (Tau = 2.4 ms). 

A (constant) short time later, the MCM measures the MCM'E' HVDC voltage with a high impedance ADC. However, due to the large time constant, the MCM'E' capacitors are still charging, hence the voltage the MCM's ADC measures on MCM'E' is less than the actual pack voltage. In both my cars, the MCM'E' voltage offset is a constant value: 12 volts less than the actual pack voltage. Therefore, LiBCM adjusts the VPIN voltage and BATTSCI voltage values by 12 volts. 

However, in those cars where the HVDC insulation resistance is too low - but not low enough to set a P-code (~300 kOhm) - this constant offset voltage value will increase (e.g. to 23 volts, etc). Note that as long as the insulation resistance exceeds some value (TBD, e.g. 1 MOhm), the offset should remain constant (e.g. specifically 12 Ohms). The offset will only change when the insulation resistance drops below some value (TBD, e.g. 500 kOhm).

The solution is probably going to be to add a voltage offset constant into the config.h file:
#define MCME_VOLTAGE_OFFSET_ADJUST 0 //difference between OBDIIC&C and LiBCM spoofed pack voltage
This will only work if the HVDC leakage is fairly constant, possibly by comparing LiBCM's spoofed pack voltage (on 4x20 screen) to the OBDIIC&C's measured pack voltage. For example, if LiBCM's spoofed voltage is 168 volts, whereas OBDIIC&C displays 142 volts, then we would set
MCME_VOLTAGE_OFFSET_ADJUST = (168-142) = 26
P1576(12) occurs when the MCM'E' voltage disagrees with the VPIN voltage by more than 10 volts for more than two seconds.

About once per second, the MCM's "Insulation Resistance Check" (IRC) routine injects a test current - sourced from chassis ground - alternatively into the MCM'E' connector's HVDC+ & HVDC- leads.

In the OEM configuration, the MCM'E' connector has a low resistance path back to the battery (less than a couple ohms). However, on LiBCM the return path is substantially higher (around 20 kOhm, see R69/R70/R71/R72/R335/R336). This high resistance is required to spoof the MCM'E' pack voltage. Therefore, when LiBCM is installed, the MCM'E' voltage droops whenever the IRC test is active (about once per second).

When the IRC test finishes, the current injection is disabled, which causes the MCM'E' voltage to slowly rise back to the actual pack voltage. Specifically, the voltage rises with a 1st order LPF, where R = 20 kOhm & C = 118 nF (Tau = 2.4 ms). 

A (constant) short time later, the MCM measures the MCM'E' HVDC voltage with a high impedance ADC. However, due to the large time constant, the MCM'E' capacitors are still charging, hence the voltage the MCM's ADC measures on MCM'E' is less than the actual pack voltage. In both my cars, the MCM'E' voltage offset is a constant value: 12 volts less than the actual pack voltage. Therefore, LiBCM adjusts the VPIN voltage and BATTSCI voltage values by 12 volts. 

However, in those cars where the HVDC insulation resistance is too low - but not low enough to set a P-code (~300 kOhm) - this constant offset voltage value will increase (e.g. to 23 volts, etc). Note that as long as the insulation resistance exceeds some value (TBD, e.g. 1 MOhm), the offset should remain constant (e.g. specifically 12 Ohms). The offset will only change when the insulation resistance drops below some value (TBD, e.g. 500 kOhm).

The solution is probably going to be to add a voltage offset constant into the config.h file:
#define MCME_VOLTAGE_OFFSET_ADJUST 0 //difference between OBDIIC&C and LiBCM spoofed pack voltage
This will only work if the HVDC leakage is fairly constant, possibly by comparing LiBCM's spoofed pack voltage (on 4x20 screen) to the OBDIIC&C's measured pack voltage. For example, if LiBCM's spoofed voltage is 168 volts, whereas OBDIIC&C displays 142 volts, then we would set
MCME_VOLTAGE_OFFSET_ADJUST = (168-142) = 26
Q: Why is the 4x20 LCD going away after the Open Beta period ends?
A: LiDisplay will entirely replace the existing screen.  LiDisplay is a touch screen user interface with a 480*320 color display.  It'll be a huge upgrade.
A: The 4x20 screen's serial architecture is terrible, antiquated, and has odd timing requirements.  LiBCM spends more CPU time servicing the LCD screen than all other CPU tasks combined.
A: The 4x20 screen has a low-level driver bug that causes the CPU to lock up under certain hardware corner cases.  I could write my own driver, but I've worked around the issue enough for now, and would rather focus that energy on the LiDisplay replacement.
A: LiBCM might be able to drive both displays simultaneously.  If so, I'll deprecate the 4x20 display.  If not, I'll write some code to auto-detect which display is connected; if LiBCM sees both displays, it'll use LiDisplay.

Q: If I decide to remove LiBCM, how difficult is it to 'go back' to the stock NiMH configuration?
A: The simplest method would be to swap your LiBCM-equipped IMA battery enclosure with an unmodified NiMH pack.  In that case, the only remaining modification would be the single cut wire on the MCM harness.  However, reconnecting that wire is trivially easy: just plug the ORG & WHT Anderson connectors into each other.  That's it... now your car is NiMH again.
A: If you want to convert an LiBCM-equipped IMA battery back to NiMH, then you'll need to follow the installation instructions in reverse order.  If you followed the "I might switch back" instructions (outlined in the installation videos), then you'll need to splice a few wires back together.  You'll also need to cover up a few holes drilled into the plastic enclosure.

Q: (Beta) Why do I have to recompile the LiBCM firmware to change parameters?
A: The firmware will eventually support real-time configuration (via the LiDisplay touch screen).

Q: How long can an LiBCM-equipped vehicle sit without damaging the battery (e.g. airport long term parking)?  Will LiBCM over-discharge my lithium battery?
A: Over-discharging is unlikely.  When the car is off, LiBCM essentially turns itself off.  In the off state, LiBCM consumes 1% of SoC every 15 days.
A: If you parked a completely empty (10% SoC) LiBCM-equipped car at the airport, you would not damange the battery for at least 5 months.
A: Long term parking at 50% initial SoC would take 2.1 years prior to damaging the battery.
A: Long term parking at 85% initial SoC would take 3.5 years prior to damaging the battery.

Q: I plan to park my vehicle for longer than the above-indicated period.  What should I do to prevent over-discharge?
A: Turn the IMA switch off, which drops power consumption zero.
A: Leave the IMA switch on, and plug in the grid charger.
A: Charge the pack prior to long-term parking (each 2% SoC increase adds another month to long term storage)

Q: (Beta) While compiling the firmware, Arduino displays several warning messages.  Are these important?
A: Probably not.  I get warnings, too... it's the compiler trying to be helpful.

Q: Why won't LiBCM work if the safety cover isn't installed?
A: To prevent you from installing LiBCM into a car without the safety cover installed
A: You can disable this in firmware, if you know what you're doing... but really just install the cover.

Q: How does flipping the IMA switch off differ between the OEM NiMH pack and an LiBCM-equipped pack?
The OEM switch cuts the NiMH pack voltage nearly in half. If the pack is resting at 160 volts with the switch on, then turning the switch off will split the pack into two segment, at 96 and 64 volts. FYI: both voltages exceed the UL definition for "high voltage" and Honda has taken care to adhere to the additional design principals that are required in high voltage applications.
LiBCM behaves identically, except that the switch no longer cuts the pack voltage in half. In the same example as above, the 160 volt resting voltage would become a 40 volt and a 120 volt segment. This is required because I'm using a 12S BMS IC with 18S packs. This means there are QTY3 LTC6804 ICs measuring the cells on QTY2 18S modules. One of those LTC6804 ICs is measuring QTY6 cells from one pack and QTY6 cells from the other. You can't cut the pack voltage across an IC, because that would develop the full pack voltage across a single LTC6804 cell... which would cause it to explode.
So the issue isn't materially different between OEM and LiBCM... in the OEM case the 80 volt pack voltage is slightly lower, but it's still high voltage and must be treated so by the Honda design team.
The safety concern is therefore when LiBCM's clear cover is removed... in that case if you touch two high voltage segments of the LiBCM PCB, then you could be touching up to 120 volts DC. Note that this hazard is functionally identical to when the junction board is exposed... touching the 'right' two junction bars would be 80 VDC, which on paper is the same high voltage.
When the LiBCM cover is installed, there is fundamentally zero safety difference compared to the OEM NiMH.
Note that drop-in LiBCM kits will pose no additional electrocution hazard, compared to an OEM drop-in NiMH replacement battery. The primary concern then is electrocution hazards while performing the LiBCM conversion. 
LiBCM inherently deals with high voltage. Even the individual 18S modules technically exceed UL's 60 VDC rating (they ship around 65 VDC, and can charge up to 74 volts). On paper 65 VDC requires the same PPE as 120 VDC. In real life I can attest that 120 VDC hurts more than 65 VDC (which you might not even feel unless you're sweaty). However, on paper the module itself is a hazardous voltage just by itself.
I'm fairly certain all the beta testers will agree that the LiBCM conversion can be performed safely, even in its existing (beta) configuration. In fact, one of our beta testers even performed his conversion on a metal table (which for the record I do not recommend).
The ultimate worry, then, is that an installer is complacent and touches two separate high voltage traces on the LiBCM PCB.

Q: Is it safe that LiBCM's high current cables use 75 amp rated Anderson connectors?
A: Yes.
A: The 75 amp rating is for a continuous load, and with the additional heat-load introduced by adjacent multi-gang connectors (which are not present in LiBCM).
A: Anderson rates this connector to 120 amps for five minutes (per UL 1977 testing).  The IMA system cannot maintain currents this high for this long (this connector is not the weakest link).
A: This specific connector has been used in various IMA-related projects for 15+ years.

Q: After installing LiBCM, my OBDIIC&C keeps resetting.  What's wrong?
A: The longer high current leads inside LiBCM-equipped IMA packs can generate increased RF noise under heavy regen/assist.  This noise can conduct into the H-Line signal.  Honda's H-Line signal is intended to be a debug tool only, and is not used by the vehicle in normal use.  However, the aftermarket OBDIIC&C uses this bus to query data from the various vehicle computers.
A: If your OBDIIC&C resets aftrer installing LiBCM, OBDIIC&C's designer recommends:
	-placing a 10 nF capacitor between H-Line and GND at the OBDIIC&C PCB.
	-adding a 1 kOhm pulling from the H-Line to 5V at the OBDIIC&C PCB.

Q: Why is the 18S+/18S+/12S+ module configuration not supported?
A: The high current leads are long, difficult to route, and require two separate manual disconnects.
A: There are very few 18S+ modules (maybe a couple dozen), whereas there are nearly QTY1000 known 18S- modules. 

Q: When will LiBCM support 54S?
A: No idea.
A: When 54S ships, it will require a few cable changes and a new BMS adapter.  All LiBCM PCBs support up to 60S.
A: For now you should use 48S.
For the LiBCM PCB, there are zero hardware differences between 48S/54S/60S. Put another way, all PCBs ship equipped to handle up to 60S cells. However, the initial firmware and cabling kits only support 48S.

Eventually I will release cabling (and a firmware update) for 54S, but note the following:
-I'm going to develop the LiDisplay touch screen prior to starting 54S
-It's possible a 54S configuration with QTY3 18S modules might not fit cleanly inside the enclosure... I still have work to do to figure out how to route the cabling. 54S hasn't received even 1% of my focus compared to 48S.
-A 54S pack will only produce slightly more peak power than a 48S pack (but of course it will have 12.5% more nominal energy). This is due to hardware limitations with how LiBCM interfaces to the MCM.
-The first QTY100 LiBCM units will probably sell out long before I start looking at 54S
-After shipping the first QTY100 units, it could take several quarters (e.g. 2022Q3) before I can ship more units.

Therefore, if you want an LiBCM kit in the next six months, then I strongly encourage you to purchase a 48S kit, and then use a 48S configuration for the time being.


Q: How much more power will a 54S pack provide, compared to 48S?
A: Certainly there will be more power at higher voltages... but not as much as you might guess. The primary limitation is that LiBCM can only spoof the voltage down to 67% of whatever it actually is... and given that the OEM MCM throttles down current proportionally with voltage increase (above 120 VDC), it won't be as much as you'd otherwise expect. 54S with standard lithium is ~220 volts, which LiBCM can spoof down to 148 volts... so you should expect about 4 kW less than the "on paper" power calculation... somewhere around 25 kW or so, which is only 2 kW more than a 48S configuration.
A: A 54S pack might yield 8% more power than a 48S pack.

Of course you could add external resistors to apply an additional voltage spoof, which would entirely overcome LiBCM's hardware limitation... but that would no longer be "drop in", and would add quite a few caveats to an otherwise clean install. As you pointed out, you'd (probably**) need to replace the OEM DCDC converter as soon as HVDC exceeds 217-218 volts.

Q: Is 60S worthwhile?
A: For standard voltage lithium cells (4.2 Vmax), 60S requires a different HVDCDC converter.  60S can theoretically deliver more power, but it's considerably more difficult to build a 60S pack (compared to 54S or 48S).
A: 60S is primarily intended for lower voltage LiFePO4 (3.7 Vmax) and LTO (2.7 Vmax) cells.  

Q: The EHW5 modules are too small... How do I use LiBCM with a larger pack?
A: EHW5 modules are easily reconfigured.  An 18S1P pack can easily be converted to 9S2P, 6S3P, 3S6P, etc.
A: Reconfiguring QTY8 18S modules to 6S3P would yield a 15Ah 48S module. You'd also need to connect custom BMS ribbon cables to each module.
A: LiBCM technically works with any lithium module.  Nissan Leaf modules are probably the 'ultimate' pack for the G1 Insight.  Again, you just need to use custom BMS ribbon cables.

Q: With all this additional power, can Insight spin the tires off the line?
A: Only when the road is wet or has debris... it's still a Honda Insight... just more powerful.

Q: How long to install LiBCM Kit?
A: At this point I can do a full swap in a couple hours, so expect to spend between two and eight hours start to finish. It's a lot of work.

Q: How long will EHW5 modules last?
A: Panasonic rates these cells to 50,000 cycles with the following caveats:
-Test performed at 23 degC ambient
-10%-85% SoC
-Continuous 40 amp charge/discharge (100% duty cycle to failure)
-Test concludes when 80% of original capacity remains

Notes on cycle lifetime:
-If a Honda Insight is stored out of the sun and cold (e.g. in a garage), the EHW5 lithium modules have a nearly unlimited mileage lifetime... they're going to die from old age first (Panasonic rates them to retain 80% initial capacity after ten years). You could completely charge/discharge the pack 3x/day for ten years straight... and the battery is still going to die from old age first.

-Extreme temperatures will substantially increase cell degradation. Panasonic doesn't provide cycle lifetime guidance besides at room temperature, but does specify that EHW5 cells be used from -30 degC to 55 degC. We can reduce the temperature impact by limiting assist/regen at extreme temperatures. For example, if the temperature drops below freezing:
-LiBCM will limit regen.
-If enabled (by the user), LiBCM will attempt to heat the pack (using the onboard balancing resistors).
-With a fully charged pack, LiBCM can self-heat for more than three days non-stop.
-If the grid charger is plugged in, LiBCM will discharge (as above) and also turn on the grid charger (to balance the discharge losses).
-If the cabin temperature is warmer than the battery, LiBCM will turn on the fans (it can do so even when the key is off).

Q: How much will the EHW5 modules heat up during heavy assist/regen?
A: Based on empirical testing, new cells likely won't heat up beyond 20 degF above ambient in even the most demanding use cases.

Q: How 'hard' is LiBCM pushing the EHW5 modules?
A: Way below spec.
A: LiBCM would theoretically approach the EHW5's limits around 53 kW assist.  LiBCM is presently less than half that value.
A: Everything I know about these specific modules is located here: https://github.com/doppelhub/Honda_Insight_LiBCM/tree/main/Electronics/Lithium%20Batteries

Q: What happens as the lithium cells age and become more unbalanced?
A: Whenever the car is off, LiBCM will dutifully balance the cells to within 1 mV.

Q: How does LiBCM report state of charge (SoC)?
A: LiBCM's 4x20 Display (and LiDisplay): The actual SoC is shown on the screen, where 0% is a completely empty pack and 100% is completely full.  LiBCM uses the SoC range between 10% & 85%.
A: OBDIIC&C: The actual SoC is remapped to mimic the OEM NiMH range.  This is required to properly apply regen and assist.
A: Instrument Panel: The SoC is not presently displayed on the dashboard gauge.  Instead, the value always remains 'stuck' at a single value (e.g. 19 bars).  A future firmware update should resolve this issue.

Q: What testing is performed on each LiBCM prior to shipping?
A: Each subassembly is 100% functional tested using custom hardware.
A: Each cell voltage circuit is measured, both electrically and thermally.
A: Each BMS adapter undergoes a two-stage test procedure to verify there are no shorts, and that each wire is routed to the correct position on both connectors.
A: Each BMS adapter is plugged into a known-good LiBCM, and then the voltages are measured.
A: Each PCB is connected to a simulated Honda Insight IMA system, and then each subsystem is tested using the following code: https://github.com/doppelhub/Honda_Insight_LiBCM/blob/main/Firmware/MVP/BringupTester.cpp
A: Each high current cable undergoes a five second, 100 amp test to verify low cable resistance.
A: Each 4x20 LCD display is tested using a known-good PCB.
A: Each PCB is 100% visually inspected twice.

Q: The 4x20 backlight turns on, but I don't see any text.  What's wrong?
A: Adjust the potentiometer on the LCD's back side, using a small flathead screwdriver.
A: Turn the key off/on.
A: Verify the 10' cable is plugged in correctly: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vtU__58DWYw

Q: Why does LiBCM sometimes emit an audible beep during heavy regenerative braking?
A: (Beta) LiBCM emits an alarm whenever any cell voltage exceeds 4.200 volts.  Future firmware updates will more intelligently limit the maximum cell voltage (based on current amplitude).
A: LiBCM will tell the MCM to disable regen before any cell voltage gets this high, but sometimes the delay is too long and the cell voltages briefly exceed 4.200 volts.
A: When the batteries are nearly full, heavy regen can cause the cell voltage to briefly spike above this limit.
A: If the beep stops when you let off the brake pedal, then there's nothing to worry about.
A: If the beeping persists, IMMEDIATE manual user interaction is required (e.g. engage Calpod Switch, place transmission in neutral, etc).
A: Heavy regen produces severe RF noise inside the IMA bay.  Even with heavy analog filtering, this noise electrically couples into the BMS cell voltage measurement circuitry, and can temporarily cause incorrect voltage readings during heavy regen.

Q: Why does the bay 3 BMS connector not have latching tabs (like bay 1 & bay 2)?
A: Safety.  The right angle connectors used on bay 1 & bay 2 have exposed conductors on the connector side.  When only bay 1 & bay 2 are plugged in, the highest HVDC delta on the PCB is relatively low, whereas when bay 3 is connected, up to 150 VDC can exist on the PCB.
A: This connector shouldn't work its way loose once the LiBCM PCB is installed.  If you have concerns (you shouldn't), then you can drill a 4 mm hole through the left side of the plastic IMA enclosure, then screw an M4x25 bolt into the hole.  Position the hole such that the bolt shaft depth will prevent the ribbon connector from working out (once the PCB is screwed to the enclosure).  Based tens of thousands of miles driven during the beta program, this is not necessary.

Q: (Beta) Why is assist current positive (e.g. +50 A), and regen current negative (e.g. -50 A)?
A: The math is easier this way.
A: The behavior will (eventually) change to mimic the OEM behavior.

Q: Can I collect data (e.g. with an external laptop)?
A: Yes.  With the key off, plug LiBCM's USB cable into a host computer, then open a 115200 bps serial connection (e.g. using Arduino's Serial Monitor window).